DOCS: New Timing and Latency section (DOCF-1179) (#1994)
Unity-Technologies/InputSystem: Packages/com.unity.inputsystem/Documentation~/timing-optimize-fixed-update.md

# Optimize for fixed-timestep or physics-based scenarios

> If you are working with the physics system or using `FixedUpdate` to control your game in a scenario where a small amount of input latency is acceptable (for example, a few frames), the simplest approach is to set the [input system update mode](./timing-select-mode.md) to **Process Events in Fixed Update**. This means your input code in `FixedUpdate` will operate as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are working with the physics system or using `FixedUpdate` to control your game in a scenario where a small amount of input latency is acceptable (for example, a few frames), the simplest approach is to set the [input system update mode](timing-select-mode.md) to **Process Events in Fixed Update**. This means your input code in `FixedUpdate` will operate as expected.
```

To get the minimum possible latency from the Input System and minimize lag, set the input system update mode to **Process Events in Dynamic Update**. However in doing this, you must understand how to avoid the problems which can arise when using this strategy. Although it might seem incorrect if you have code in `FixedUpdate`, for most cases, this approach minimizes lag compared with processing events in Fixed Update. The reasons for this are explained in detail on this page. Having a good understanding of how input is processed in each mode allows you to make your own decision about how best to process input for your particular project.

## Input in Fixed Update mode

When you set the input system update mode to **Process Events in Fixed Update**, input events are processed in groups according to whether their timestamp falls within the current fixed time step. There might be none, one, or multiple `FixedUpdate` calls processed per frame depending on how fast the game's frame rate is updating compared with the fixed update time step period.

> If your game’s frame rate is running faster than the fixed time step period, you will have either zero or one `FixedUpdate` call per frame, depending whether the previous fixed time step has completed or not. If your game’s frame rate is running slower than the fixed time step period, you will have one or more `FixedUpdate` calls per frame \- as many as are required to catch up with the number of completed fixed time step periods that have elapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your game’s frame rate is running faster than the fixed time step period, it makes either zero or one `FixedUpdate` call per frame, depending whether the previous fixed time step has completed or not. If your game’s frame rate is running slower than the fixed time step period, it makes one or more `FixedUpdate` calls per frame to catch up with the number of completed fixed time step periods that have elapsed.
```

The diagram shows an input event (shown as a blue dot) that occurs during some unprocessed time during frame 3. Although the event occurs during frame 3, it's not processed in the fixed update input processing step at the start of frame 4 because it didn't occur during fixed time step (**A**). Instead, it occurred during fixed time step (**B**), which is processed at the start of frame 7 \- the first frame to occur after fixed time step (**B**) has completely elapsed.

This has the counterintuitive effect that the processing of input on frame 4 actually ignores some input that has already occurred on frame 3, because it's only processing events that occurred in the last complete fixed time step: (**A**).

## Minimize latency when using fixed update code

To minimize input latency in input code in `FixedUpdate` calls, set the input system update mode to **Process Events in Dynamic Update**, which eliminates the problem of unprocessed time described previously. You can then use an event-driven or polling technique to read your input without missing events that occurred after the last fixed timestep but before the current frame.

> However, the **Process Events in Dynamic Update** mode might introduce the problem of missed or duplicate discrete events, such as attempting to read whether a button was pressed in a given frame. If you use this strategy, you must understand how to [avoid missed or duplicate events](./timing-missed-duplicate-events.md) in mixed timing scenarios requiring fixed and dynamic input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the **Process Events in Dynamic Update** mode might introduce the problem of missed or duplicate discrete events, such as attempting to read whether a button was pressed in a given frame. If you use this strategy, you must understand how to [avoid missed or duplicate events](timing-missed-duplicate-events.md) in mixed timing scenarios requiring fixed and dynamic input.
```

### Event-driven input with fixed update code

> For event-driven input, where the [Player Input component](./PlayerInput.md) calls events in your code, you should store the input values in variables which you can then read in your `FixedUpdate` call. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For event-driven input, where the [Player Input component](PlayerInput.md) calls events in your code, you should store the input values in variables which you can then read in your `FixedUpdate` call. For example:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```c#
```

using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.InputSystem;

public class ExampleScript : MonoBehaviour
{
    Vector2 moveInputValue;
    Rigidbody rigidBody;
    public float moveForce = 10;

    private void Start()
    {
        rigidBody = GetComponent<Rigidbody>();
    }

    public void OnMove(InputAction.CallbackContext context)
    {
        // in the event callback, we store the input value
        moveInputValue = context.ReadValue<Vector2>();
    }

    private void FixedUpdate()
    {
        // in fixed update, we use the stored value for
        // applying physics forces
        rigidBody.AddForce(moveInputValue * moveForce);
    }
}
```

### Polling input with fixed update code

For code where you're polling input action values, you can read the values directly from `FixedUpdate`:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```c#
```
